#summary Getting started with junixsocket.

= Introduction =

junixsocket is a Java/JNI library that allows the use of Unix Domain Sockets (AF_UNIX sockets) from Java. It also provides glue code such that one can actually use RMI over AF_UNIX.

junixsocket has been written by Christian Kohlschütter. It is released under the Apache 2.0 License.

= Installation =

junixsocket consists of pure Java component that is platform-independent and a platform-dependent JNI-native C library component (for each platform a different library file is provided.

== Installing the native JNI libraries ==

In order to use the Java classes the JNI library needs to be installed on a particular location on your system.

The following native libraries are provided in the [http://code.google.com/p/junixsocket/downloads/list binary tarball] (directory `lib-native`):

* `libjunixsocket-linux-1.5-amd64.so`  Linux Intel 64bit
* `libjunixsocket-linux-1.5-i386.so`  Linux Intel 32bit
* `libjunixsocket-macosx-1.5-i386.dylib`  OS X Intel 32bit
* `libjunixsocket-macosx-1.5-x86_64.dylib` OS X Intel 64bit

You can put the native library anywhere in your `java.library.path` (see 
http://java.sun.com/docs/books/jni/html/start.html), into the path specified for the Java system property `org.newsclub.net.unix.library.path` and into the path stored in the LIBRARY_PATH static attribute of the `NativeUnixSocketConfig` class (which is `/opt/newsclub/lib-native` by default, but this can be changed by replacing the class against a custom one).

== Installing the jars ==

junixsocket comes with three jar files:

# `junixsocket-1.0.jar`  The core library
# `junixsocket-rmi-1.0.jar`  The RMI extension (RMI over AF_UNIX)
# `junixsocket-demo-1.0.jar`  Demo classes (the jar archive contains the Java sources, too).

Either just add the first, the first two or all three jars to your classpath.

= Usage Examples =

Please have a look at the demo classes provided [http://code.google.com/p/junixsocket/source/browse/#svn/trunk/junixsocket/src/demo/org/newsclub/net/unix/demo here] and [http://code.google.com/p/junixsocket/source/browse/#svn/trunk/junixsocket/src/demo/org/newsclub/net/unix/demo/rmi here].